Some secular authorities
have drawn wrong conclusions
about the involvement
of the congregation of Jehovah’s Witnesses
when an individual commits a serious wrong
that violates both civil law
and Scriptural law.
Part of the misunderstanding
involves our use
of the term “judicial committee.”
Now, some erroneously conclude
that the congregation is trying to take over
the work of the police
or the judicial courts,
and that’s simply not the case,
as explained
in the May 2019 Watchtower,  page 7,
which our comments
are taken from here today.
So let’s briefly review the history
of handling judicial matters
among God’s people.
Now, I’d like to do so under this theme:
“The Older Men and the Superior Authorities
Standing in Their Proper Place.”
Now, it is important to remember
that Jehovah has always and will always be
“the Judge [over] all the earth.”
That’s according to Genesis 18:25.
But how Jehovah
has his judgment determined
and the punishment administered
has changed over a period of time
—whom he allows to do that.
At first, of course, he was the Judge.
You take Adam and Eve
—He made the decision.
It was a swift action.
He pronounced the sentence
and moved them right out
of the garden of Eden immediately.
But Jehovah God has never abdicated
his authority as the universal Judge.
But as time has gone on
and the human family has grown,
then he’s delegated
judicial authority to others.
The first were the patriarchs,
and they would handle matters
within their own family units.
And then later, Israel started to grow.
There were hundreds of thousands,
and so older men were appointed
to handle matters within the nation.
But remember at one time
they were also in Egypt
and they were in captivity as slaves,
so this group of older men would have limits
on their judicial authority.
But that limit was about to change
because the Israelites
left the Egyptian bondage
in Nisan 14, 1513 B.C.E.
And about a year later,
they went into a covenant with Jehovah God
called the Law covenant.
So Jehovah gave laws
that would include
all the aspects of their life.
Now, sometime later,
notice what Jehovah said to Moses.
I’m going to Numbers 11:16
—Numbers 11:16.
“Jehovah replied to Moses:
“‘Gather for me 70 men
from the elders of Israel,
“‘men whom you recognize as elders
and officials of the people.’”
So these 70 men,
chosen from all of the elders,
were special officers.
So think about it now,
Israel had a national law,
and now they had
an arrangement of older men
who could enforce the Law.
This was a sovereign nation
under Jehovah God.
So all aspects
—spiritual, civil, criminal wrongdoing—
were all handled by the older men.
They would hear the matter,
they would render judgment,
they would assist the victim,
and they would administer
appropriate discipline.
But in time, the nomadic Israelites
then took over the Promised Land,
and they went back
to dwelling in fixed homes,
and they then had communities.
But these were special boundaries
where Jehovah’s Law was the law of the land.
The older men became responsible
for handling it on a community level.
They acted as judges,
they would administer justice,
they made sure there was good order,
they maintained peace,
and they also handled
the spiritual needs of the community.
Now, this was Israel’s judicial system
for 900 years,
from 1513 B.C.E.
to 607 B.C.E.
when Jerusalem was destroyed.
This was a unique period
in the time of God’s people.
It was the only time
when God’s people as a nation
were in complete control
of their entire judicial process.
During this time,
only Jehovah’s Law was applied
within Israel’s fixed boundaries.
But notice the change that happened
when the Babylonians took over
and conquered Jerusalem in 607 B.C.E.
We’ll go to Deuteronomy chapter 28
and verse 64.
It says: “Jehovah will scatter you
among all the nations,
from the one end of the earth
to the other end of the earth.”
And that’s exactly what happened.
They no longer were going to be in Israel.
They would be in communities
far away from Israel.
Under the Persian rule,
they were scattered in 127 districts.
Under the Greek rule,
Alexander the Great brought many of the Jews
to his new city, Alexandria.
Under the Roman rule,
they allowed Jewish communities
within their cities throughout their empire.
So though these older men
lived in these communities, see,
the local laws would be enforced
by the local secular authorities.
And that’s according
to what the apostle Paul said at Romans 13:1.
Those were the “superior authorities”
that he made reference to.
So here’s the question,
When the Christian congregation
was established,
would the entire judicial process,
both civil and Scriptural,
once again be handled
by the older men in the congregation?
Well, the answer is no
—and for a good reason.
Now, it’s true, the global brotherhood
would all be unified
under one Scriptural law,
and that Scriptural law
would be applied in every congregation
no matter what land
or what country they were in.
But what about the secular laws
governing civil and criminal matters?
Well, unlike the Scriptural law,
secular laws are specific
to the land that they govern.
For instance, the secular authorities’
definitions of crimes
and their enforcement of penalties
are not consistent from land to land.
Take this example, substance abuse.
Well, what constitutes illegal abuse?
What’s the quantity consumed
that would make it illegal?
If you’re driving some vehicle
and you’re under the influence,
what’s the punishment
—if there is any punishment?
You see, the answers to those questions
really vary widely from country to country,
in fact, even from state to state at times.
So it’s up to the secular governments
to determine the penalties
and to enforce them.
So, in conclusion,
Jehovah allows the superior authorities
—the governments, as it were—
to prosecute and administer
civil and criminal law.
Now, the authorities are vested
with the power to punish
those who violate those laws.
That too is in accord with Romans chapter 13.
The Christian congregation is not
—and never has been—
a substitute for the secular authorities,
and that’s why the congregation
does not shield individuals
from this secular arrangement.
Now, it’s true,
if a member of the congregation
commits a sin that is also a crime
in the eyes of the secular law,
then of course
the secular law will handle that
but Jehovah allows the congregation elders
to handle the spiritual, or Scriptural,
aspect of the sin.
And this would then assure
that His name and His reputation
are upheld
and that the parties themselves
are able to be helped spiritually.
So in this way,
prior to the new world of righteousness,
the Judge of all the earth
uses the older men
and the superior authorities,
both standing in their proper place,
to accomplish His will.